<!-- ** The credits

     $Id: credits.docbook 995 2007-07-15 15:37:19Z ewald-arnold $
-->

<chapter id="credits">
<title>Credits and License</title>

<sect1 id="links">
<title>Related Links</title>

<para>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
  <term>XML-RPC Homepage</term>
  <listitem>
  <para><ulink url="http://www.xmlrpc.com">http://www.xmlrpc.com</ulink>.</para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>Another implementation of XML-RPC with lots of information</term>
  <listitem>
  <para><ulink url="http://xmlrpc-c.sourceforge.net">http://xmlrpc-c.sourceforge.net</ulink>.
  </para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>XML Standards</term>
  <listitem>
  <para><ulink url="http://www.w3.org/XML/">http://www.w3.org/XML/</ulink>.</para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>A lot of Information Around XML</term>
  <listitem>
  <para><ulink url="http://www.xml.com">http://www.xml.com</ulink>.</para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>Important Built-In Methods for Servers</term>
  <listitem>
  <para><ulink url="http://xmlrpc.usefulinc.com/doc/reserved.html"
        >http://xmlrpc.usefulinc.com/doc/reserved.html</ulink>.</para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>Proposal for Standard Fault Codes</term>
  <listitem>
  <para><ulink url="http://xmlrpc-epi.sourceforge.net/specs/rfc.fault_codes.php"
        >http://xmlrpc-epi.sourceforge.net/specs/rfc.fault_codes.php</ulink>.</para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>Unicode Consortium</term>
  <listitem>
  <para><ulink url="http://www.unicode.org">http://www.unicode.org</ulink></para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>Socket Programming FAQ</term>
  <listitem>
  <para><ulink url="http://www.ibrado.com/sock-faq/">http://www.ibrado.com/sock-faq/</ulink>.</para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>RFC 2616 - Hypertext Transfer Protocal</term>
  <listitem>
  <para><ulink url="http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc2616.html">http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc2616.html</ulink>.</para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>RFC 2617 - HTTP Authentication</term>
  <listitem>
  <para><ulink url="http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc2617.html">http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc2617.html</ulink>.</para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>RFC 2822 - Internet Message Format</term>
  <listitem>
  <para><ulink url="http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc2822.html">http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc2822.html</ulink>.</para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>RFC 1341 - Format of Internet Message Bodies (explains base64)</term>
  <listitem>
  <para><ulink url="http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc1341.html">http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc1341.html</ulink>.</para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="copyrights">
<title>Copyrights</title>

<para>Library and applications from the &ulxmlrpcpp; package are copyright &copyyears;
Ewald Arnold <email>&ulxmlrpcpp_email;</email>.</para>

<para>Documentation are copyright &copyyears; Ewald Arnold<email>&ulxmlrpcpp_email;</email>.</para>

<para>This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
the License, or (at your option) any later version.</para>

<para>This library is distributed in the hope that it will be
useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty
of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.</para>

<para>You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General
Public License along with this library; if not, write to the Free
Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA
02111-1307 USA</para>

<para>Contributed files are copyright of the respective owners. See according files
below the <filename role="directory">contrib</filename> directories.</para>

<para>Some of the files below <filename>ulxmlrpcpp/stubber</filename> also have
different copyright. The basis for the C++ parser in <filename>ulxmlrpcpp/stubber/ulxr2xml</filename>
was taken from the <ulink url="http://www.kde.org">KDE Project</ulink>. Originally
it was used to create DCOP files for the interprocess communication in the
KDE 3.x series. Many thanks go to the people who created this useful application. For
the copyright details see the according files.</para>

<para>The files below <filename>ulxmlrpcpp/stubber/xml2ulxr</filename>
on the other hand are regular part of &ulxmlrpcpp; and under LGPL so they could be
integrated into third party tools.</para>
</sect1>

</chapter>
